# Folders

Project OutFox uses various folders to store content, such as songs, save data, themes, noteskins, etc. Content is stored in one of the three following locations;

* **Global folders** are located within the Project OutFox installation directory. If you are on a multi-user operating system, content in these folders will be accessible to all users. When _Portable Mode_ is disabled, your save data (including profiles and preference files) will be placed in the installation directory.
* **User folders** are also created in your operating system's home/user directory if _Portable Mode_ is disabled. When _Portable Mode_ is disabled, this is where your save data will be stored.
** On macOS, these folders are located in **~/Library/Preferences/StepMania 5.3/**
** On Linux, these folders are located in **~/.stepmania-5.3/**
** On Windows, these folders are located in **%APPDATA%\StepMania 5.3**
* **Additional folders** are paths configured in the ``Save/Preferences.ini`` file; for instance, you can store your song library on a second hard drive and link to it there, or share content between multiple installations.

These content folders comprise the game's "Virtual File System" (VFS). They are, in turn, divided into various subfolders for storing specific types of content. 

## Announcers
Announcers are a collection of audio files that play automatically based on specific triggers, such as in-game events or navigating to specific screens.

## Appearance

### Avatars

Square images that can be used as avatars for your profile. 

### Judgments

If supported by the current theme, you can pick a different design for in-game judgement displays from images in this folder.

Judgement fonts are divided into equally-sized sprites for each judgement. Fonts designed for specific timing modes have a modifier in their file name, such as ``[Advanced]``, ``[FAPlus]``, etc. A judgement font can also have specific versions for early and late timings.

### NoteSkins

NoteSkins affect the appearance of notes. They could be arrows, bars, circles, pawprints, etc. Project OutFox is compatible with noteskins designed for StepMania 5.

The NoteSkins folder is divided into subfolders for specific [game types](./game-types). A _global noteskin_ appears in all game types.

```
NoteSkins
│
└───dance
│   │   
│   └───metal
│       │NoteSkin.lua
│       │...
```

### Themes

Themes determine the look, feel, and functionality of the game.

```
Themes
│
└───My Theme
│   │   Metrics.ini
│   │   ...
```

### Toasties

Inspired by the famous _Mortal Kombat_ easter egg, a toasty is an image and sound played on specific combo milestones.

## BackgroundEffects

Visual effects used for background script sequences in songs.

## BackgroundTransitions

Visual effects used for background script sequences in songs.

## BGAnimations

Actor-based animations that can be played in the background in-game. They can also be used as part of background script sequences in songs.

## Cache

The cache generated by Project OutFox when loading songs. Delete this folder to force the game to reload all songs.

## Characters

3D character models that can be displayed in-game.

## Courses

Playlists of songs used in course modes (such as Extended).

## Logs

When Project OutFox is running, it generates various log files to record diagnostic information and errors. If you are having issues with the game, the log file is a good place to begin.

## RandomMovies

Video clips that can be played in the background in-game. They can also be used as part of background script sequences in songs.

## Save

This is where data such as preferences, profiles, high scores, etc. are stored. If portable mode is enabled, the game will load the Save folder from your installation directory. It is otherwise located in your user folders.

## Screenshots

Screenshots taken in-game are stored here.

## Songs

Songs that are used to play the game. They are stored in folders known as Groups.

```
Songs
│
└───My Group
│   │   
│   └───My Song
│       │   mysong.ssc
│       │   mysong.ogg
│       │   mysong-bg.png
│       │   mysong-bn.png
│       │   mysong-jk.png
```

