---
title: Content folders
weight: 0
---

Project OutFox uses various folders to store content, such as songs, save data, themes, noteskins, etc. Content is stored in one of the three following locations;

* **Global folders** are located within the Project OutFox installation directory. If you are on a multi-user operating system, content in these folders will be accessible to all users. When _Portable Mode_ is enabled by placing a blank file named ``Portable.ini`` at the root of the installation directory, save data (including profiles and preference files) will be place in a subfolder of the installation directory named "Save".
* **User folders** are where user save data is stored if _Portable Mode_ is disabled. They are created in the operating system's home/user directory. As of 0.4.14 (released 2022-03-25), they are located in:
    * **~/Library/Preferences/Project OutFox/** on macOS
    * **~/.project-outfox/** on Linux
    * **%APPDATA%\Project OutFox** on Windows
    * On versions prior to 0.4.14, the user folder was named either **OutFox 5.3** (macOS and Windows) or **outfox-5.3** (Linux).
* **Additional folders** are paths configured in the [Preferences.ini file](/user-guide/config/preferences/#additionalfolders); for instance, you can store your song library on a second hard drive and link to it there, or share content between multiple installations.

These content folders comprise the game's "Virtual File System" (VFS). They are, in turn, divided into various subdirectories for storing specific types of content. 

## Announcers
Announcers are a collection of audio files that play automatically based on specific triggers, such as in-game events or navigating to specific screens.

## Appearance

### Avatars

Square images that can be used as avatars for your profile. 

### Judgments

If supported by the current theme, you can pick a different design for in-game judgement displays from images in this folder.

Judgement fonts are divided into equally-sized sprites for each judgement. Fonts designed for specific timing modes have a modifier in their file name, such as ``[Advanced]``, ``[FAPlus]``, etc. A judgement font can also be divided into two columns to display indicators for early or late timing.

### NoteSkins

NoteSkins affect the appearance of notes. They could be arrows, bars, circles, pawprints, etc. 

NoteSkins that are compatible with StepMania 5.0.12 and 5.1 are compatible with Project OutFox.

The NoteSkins folder is divided into subfolders for specific [game types](/user-guide/games/). A _global noteskin_ appears in all game types.

```
NoteSkins
│
└───dance
│   │   
│   └───metal
│       │NoteSkin.lua
│       │...
```

### Themes

Themes determine the look, feel, and functionality of the game. 

Themes compatible with StepMania 5.0.12 and 5.1 are compatible with Project OutFox.

```
Themes
│
└───My Theme
│   │   Metrics.ini
│   │   ...
```

### Toasties

Combinations of an image and sound played when a specific combo milestone is reached. They are inspired by the famous _Mortal Kombat_ easter egg.

## BackgroundEffects

Visual effects used for background script sequences in songs.

## BackgroundTransitions

Transition effects used for background script sequences in songs.

## BGAnimations

Actor-based animations that can be played in the background in-game. They can also be used as part of background script sequences in songs.

## Cache

The cache generated by Project OutFox when loading songs. Delete this folder to force the game to reload all songs.

## Characters

3D character models that can be displayed in-game.

## Courses

Playlists of songs used in course modes (such as Extended).

## Logs

When Project OutFox is running, it generates various log files to record diagnostic information and errors. If you are having issues with the game, the log file is a good place to begin.

## RandomMovies

Video clips that can be played in the background in-game. They can also be used as part of background script sequences in songs.

## Save

This is where data such as preferences, profiles, high scores, etc. are stored. If portable mode is enabled, the game will load the Save folder from your installation directory. It is otherwise located in your user folders.

## Screenshots

Screenshots taken in-game are stored here.

## SongMovies

Similar in use to RandomMovies, except that they will be excluded from the RandomMovies pool.

## Songs

Songs that are used to play the game. They are stored in folders known as Groups.

```
Songs
│
└───My Group
│   │   
│   └───My Song
│       │   mysong.ssc
│       │   mysong.ogg
│       │   mysong-bg.png
│       │   mysong-bn.png
│       │   mysong-jk.png
```

# Additional folders
Via the preferences file (Save/Preferences.ini), you can specify _additional_ folders to store content. For example, you can keep your song library in a centralized location (such as in a separate folder or on a different storage device), and share them between multiple installations of OutFox or StepMania-based games.

Both of these parameters accept multiple directory paths, comma-separated.

## AdditionalSongFolders
The ``AdditionalSongFolders`` option allows you to specify other locations for where Project OutFox can search for songs. As with the installation directory's song folder, they are divided into groups. For example (assuming a location such as ``D:\AdditionalSongs``);

```
D:\AdditionalSongs
│
└───My Group
│   │   
│   └───My Song
│       │   mysong.ssc
│       │   mysong.ogg
│       │   mysong-bg.png
│       │   mysong-bn.png
│       │   mysong-jk.png
```

## AdditionalFolders

AdditionalFolders is like the above, except they can contain any of the other content subdirectories like so;

```
D:\OutFoxExtra
│
└───Announcers
│   
└───Appearance
│   
└───etc.

```
