---
title: "OutFox Alpha 4.11.0 Build"
weight: -31
---

### Release Date: 12th December 2021
## "Do you know why we stopped the car?"

---
# "Happy 2nd Anniversary Release, OutFox!"

---
#### (Incorporates Internal Builds 4.11.0-rc0 to 4.11.0-rc25)
#### (Incorporates Internal Builds 5.0.0-editor-preview-r0 to 5.0.0-editor-preview-r27)
---

## New Folder Locations and Short News Update.

This release will be moving the base application, folders and it's naming to 'OutFox'. This means it will not be using the 'stepmania5.3' folder anymore, and it will install into an outfox folder. You will need to move your profiles over to this new version. The old version will also need to be uninstalled manually, sorry about all of this, it is just for this update.

There is no conspiracy behind the name change, we have to do this for application signing on the Mac and for the 'MS Smart Screen' requirements for the certificates we need on Windows. This allows us to continue to be a free rhythm game that is now signed to ensure your confidence in the project, as well as ensuring the installers and packages are not tampered with. The Windows builds will be signed starting from next year, as it has taken time for the verification to complete. Our MacOS builds have been signed for a few alpha versions now, and with the 'universal' binaries we are making the Mac experience better for our Apple Players.

With this release we are announcing that Project OutFox is becoming it's own official fork. This gives an end to the confusion about our direction and this also allows those who wish to keep 5.1 installed having no risk of OutFox over-writing or damaging profiles or stored scores.

I'd like to thank the StepMania community for making this decision a lot easier. The project is not the same as we started out in early 2019, and we are sorry we were unable to have a clearer 'direction' than just 'modernising the codebase' when we started. It is not our place to shoehorn this project into the StepMania repo, and a lot of you were very open about your feelings about that and as a result, Project OutFox will be on it's own moving forward, and we will discuss with the StepMania community about what support we can bring in the future.

With this release, we start off on our journey as a new standalone project, and thus a very exciting time ahead for our team. We have a new touch based theming system coming, new online, new leaderboards, (more new modes of course!) new platforms and modernisations to come over the next year. With the 2nd anniversary of the Public Alpha Programme, the team thanks you for the support and the good vibes you have brought us as we work on this project, and we hope you'll stay with us for the rest of the journey!

---

## Signed Mac builds update!
We have continued to worked on our Mac builds since the last alpha, and this alpha will be released as a universal binary. This means we do not need to quarantine, nor worry about the systems we needed in the past to get the game to work. OutFox is fully signed and notorised, so this means installation is convenient and easy moving forward; you do not need to worry about which build to grab, as both will function as expected.
---

## be-mu updates!
---

## po-mu updates!




---

## gddm updates!
---
## gdgf updates!
---
## gh updates!
---
## dance updates!
---
## techno updates!
---

# **KNOWN ISSUES: Alpha 4.11.0**

* ❕❌ **ISSUE** Playing ``beat``/``popn``songs on Endless Mode may have a crash on song loading. Please be aware that course mode for these modes are a bit tempremental at the moment!
* ❕❌ **ISSUE** ``gh`` mode: Some charts have no real 'standard' and will cause a crash when loaded into the game
* ❕❌ **ISSUE** ``gddm``/``gdgf`` mode: We do not support the XA codec at this time, it'll play silent.

---

### **ALL:**

**Mode Specific**
* ❕✅ **New!** ``BMS`` Base36/Full BME Parser Support
* ❕✅ **New!** ``BMS`` #SCROLL and #SPEED channel support stub. Full support will be in the next alpha
* ❕✅ Fixed ``pomu`` 3 Key parser layout
* ❕✅ Fixed ``pomu`` doubles missing graphics
* ❕✅ **New!** ``PIU`` ``pump`` parser, designed for F2/P1 charts
* ❕✅ **New!** ``pump`` bga one line support
* ❕✅ **New!** ``pump`` long 'edit' chart support
* ❕✅ **New!** ``pump`` ``GetSongFolder()`` support
* ❕✅ **New!** ``pump`` Custom Notesloader pathway, for themers to use
* ❕✅ **New!** ``be-mu`` column lines for supported themes
* ❕✅ **New!** ``be-mu`` spinning turntable support for noteskins
* ❕✅ Fixed ``pump`` warp calculations due to ancient code paths being used instead of the new ones
* ❕✅ **New!** ``pump`` added ``SongCategory()``/``#SONGCATEGORY`` support to parser
* ❕✅ **New!** ``pump`` added ``SongType()``/``#SONGTYPE`` support to parser
* ❕✅ Tweaked ``gh`` strum methods
* ❕✅ Fixed ``gh`` overly punishing players
* ❕✅ **New!** ``OTO`` parser in progress
* ❕✅ Fixed ``gh`` fever issues
* ❕✅ **New!** renamed ``beat`` to ``be-mu`` (BE-MUsic)
* ❕✅ **New!** renamed ``popn`` to ``po-mu`` (POpn-MUsic)
* ❕✅ Began ``gdgf`` hold support - still a work in progress
* ❕✅ Fixed ``be-mu`` and ``po-mu`` mines auto hitting
* ❕✅ **New!** ``gdgf`` wailing support engine

**Engine**
* ❕✅ Fixed stoi overflows (closes #432)
* ❕✅ Fixed stof underflows (closes #432)
* ❕✅ **New!** BW / WIDE stoi/stof functions to unclamp when required
* ❕✅ Fixed XML input overflows
* ❕✅ Fixed logic errors in FileDB
* ❕✅ Fixed Hold endings being left over from deleted entries on the editor
* ❕✅ Fixed bug in Chart Length descriptors
* ❕✅ **New!** Use Chart Length properly in Steps
* ❕✅ **New!** ``GetChartLength()`` lua command
* ❕✅ **New!** Fix Player overflow in music length
* ❕✅ **New!** Added support for ``#LASTSECONDHINT`` in ssc files
* ❕✅ **New!** Fixed bugs with first and last second of charts
* ❕✅ **New!** Added new generation of step length
* ❕✅ **New!** Added new ``GetFGChanges()`` lua command
* ❕✅ Fixed ``haste()`` math in resampler
* ❕✅ Fixed how ``haste`` is calculated in notedata
* ❕✅ Fixed bug with GL initialisation
* ❕✅ **New!** Added new ``HasSignificantBPMChanges()`` lua command
* ❕✅ **New!** Added new ``IsDisplayBpmSpecified()`` lua command
* ❕✅ Fixed bug with some stops being 'ignored' by the game engine
* ❕✅ Fixed bug with edit files being truncated
* ❕✅ Removed the edit file limits to the parsers 
* ❕✅ Fixed crash with parsing some F2 charts
* ❕✅ Adjusted how longest charts are displayed
* ❕✅ Fixed math overflow with astronomical BPM values
* ❕✅ Fixed bug with sPath sometimes not finding files
* ❕✅ Fixed math values on warp creation
* ❕✅ Fixed warp points having duplicated notes
* ❕✅ Added sanity check for verifying scroll application
* ❕✅ Fixed timer overflow in player
* ❕✅ **New!** Project and Name now set to Project OutFox
* ❕✅ Fixed SDL Video Initialisation sometimes causing a white screen
* ❕✅ Added SDL 2.0.17
* ❕✅ Fixed underflow with some Chart calculations
* ❕✅ **New!** LuathreadVariables to reduce conversions
* ❕✅ **New!** iCol support for noteskins
* ❕✅ Fixed animation length on receptor explosions
* ❕✅ Fixed deprecated NSIS ini files
* ❕✅ Fixed auto keysounds duplicated playback
* ❕✅ Added playcommand for special keys in receptors
* ❕✅ Added filetype check on foreground loading
* ❕✅ **New!** JoyCon controller full support via HIDAPI
* ❕✅ **New!** Stadia controller full support via HIDAPI
* ❕✅ **New!** Luna controller full support via HIDAPI
* ❕✅ **New!** Steam controller full support via HIDAPI
* ❕✅ **New!** PS4/PS5 controller full support via HIDAPI
* ❕✅ **New!** ``rtMIDI`` cross platform device driver support
* ❕✅ Added ``rtmidi`` multi-device support, this allows for more than 1 MIDI device at a time!
* ❕✅ **New!** Added ``SetAutoplayForColumn()`` for autoplay options for modes that need them
* ❕✅ Fixed 3DP saving on SSC files
* ❕✅ Fixed crash on some edit files with 6+ charts within
* ❕✅ Fixed crash on userlog string buffer
* ❕✅ Corrected Input behaviour with some controllers
* ❕✅ Fixed iterator in ClearRange for Long Notes
* ❕✅ Fixed log trace calls in the notes loader running out of memory
* ❕✅ Added new preference: ``UseSongNameOnGameWindow`` to show the song name on the window title bar
* ❕✅ Fixed Autoplay not being respected on the editor
* ❕✅ Fixed editor Autoplay not using the correct GamePreferences
* ❕✅ Fixed elements not hiding when autoplaying in editor
* ❕✅ Added new preference: ``JoyStickDeadzone`` to allow the user to tweak a deadzone of an older pad
* ❕✅ Added scrolling while previewing chart on editor
* ❕✅ Added repeat input while previewing chart on editor
* ❕✅ Added snap change during preview on editor
* ❕✅ Added function to calculate beat to scroll
* ❕✅ Added option to allow a toggle for clap on editor preview
* ❕✅ Changed method for MMod/AMod to approach faster
* ❕✅ Fixed bug with wrapper states not being cleared on playback
* ❕✅ Fixed missing notes and mines in charts
* ❕✅ Fixed loading window init system
* ❕✅ Fixed parsing of pump charts causing a math overflow
* ❕✅ Fixed notedata crash with some older chart types

**Windows 7+:**
* ❕✅ Fixed the NSIS target warnings for deprecated operating systems
* ❕✅ Fixed deprecated NSIS ini files
* ❕✅ Fixed XInput correlation when the extended windows 10/11 driver is used

**Linux:**
* ❕✅ Fixed crash in MESA 21+ with 5.3 -> kernels (closes #436)
* ❕✅ Fixed edge crash with older cards on newer kernels (closes #436)
* ❕✅ Corrected method to ensure X11 does not think we have hung

**MacOS (Universal):**
* ❕✅ Fixed compiler warnings on XCode 12
* ❕✅ Fixed crash on M1 macs (Monterey) while paused
* ❕✅ Fixed crash on Intel macs (Big Sur) in windowed mode and selecting app store

**ARM32/ARM64: (Raspberry Pi etc)**
* ❕✅ Fixed StringToFloat causing a segfault on the Pi3 and Armv7 CPUs
* ❕✅ Fixed crash on rockpi 4 panfrost GPUs on newer MESA versions
* ❕✅ Changed clocks to monotonic on arm
* ❕✅ Corrected method to ensure X11 does not think we have hung

## Community content
---
### Noteskins
---
### Theme
---
### Translations

* ✅ Translations updated from Moru, SHRMP0 and SheepyChris (Brazilian Portuguese)
* ✅ Translations updated from Moneko (Polish)
* ✅ Translations updated from Hanubeki (Japanese)
* ✅ Translations updated from Jose_Varela (Spanish)
* ✅ Translations updated from Daniel Rotwind (German)
* ✅ Translations updated from Ksempac (French)
* ✅ Translations updated from Snil4 (Hebrew)

---


---
